Machine learning release notes 10.15 (#53)
SoftwareAG/c8y-releasenotes: content/release-10-15-0/machine-learning-10-15-0-bundle/10_15_0.md

---
title: Release 10.15.0
layout: redirect
weight: 40
---

### Improvements in Machine Learning Engine

- Enhancements:
  - In the Machine Learning web application, confirmation popups have been modified to provide a consistent UX with the rest of the platform.

* Upgrades:
  * Machine Learning web application upgraded to use Cumulocity Web SDK 1015.0.2.

>   * Zementis microservice upgraded from openssl  version 1.0.2 to  version 1.1.1n.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Zementis microservice upgraded from openssl version 1.0.2 to version 1.1.1n.

```

Author: Fixed.

>   * Nyoka and Onnx microservices upgraded NumPy from version 1.18.5 to version 1.21.5.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Nyoka and Onnx microservices upgraded from NumPy version 1.18.5 to version 1.21.5.

```

Author: Fixed.

>   * Nyoka and Onnx microservices upgraded scikit-learn from version 0.21.3 to version 0.23.1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Nyoka and Onnx microservices upgraded from scikit-learn version 0.21.3 to version 0.23.1.

```

Author: Fixed.

>   * Onnx microservice upgraded from onnx version 1.7.0 to version 1.11.0

Reviewer: Either use a fullstop at the end everywhere or nowhere. Please unify.

>   * Onnx microservice upgraded from onnx version 1.7.0 to version 1.11.0

Author: Fixed.

  * Onnx microservice upgraded from onnx-runtime version 1.5.2 to version 1.11.0
  * Onnx microservice upgraded from protobuf version 3.17.0 to version 3.20.0.

- Bug fixes:

>   - Fixed the issue where requests to Onnx microservice were failing if User Agent validation was enabled in the OAI settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue where requests to the Onnx microservice were failing if user agent validation was enabled in the OAI settings.

```

Author: fixed.

>   - Fixed the issue where model group list was displaying the deleted model groups at certain times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue where the model group list was displaying the deleted model groups at certain times.

```

Author: fixed.

>   - Fixed the issue where the model group list was displaying the deleted model groups at certain times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue where the model group list was displaying the deleted model groups occasionally.

```

Author: Fixed.

>   - Fixed the issue where listed pmml models reported 404-Not Found while attempting to delete them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue where listed pmml models reported "404-Not Found" while attempting to delete them.

```

Author: fixed.

### Improvements in Machine Learning Workbench

> * Compute off-load with a pluggable Enterprise Gateway:\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Compute off-load with a pluggable Jupyter Enterprise Gateway (JEG):\

```

Author: Fixed.

> With this release, the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench provides an integration connection to Jupyter Enterprise Gateway which allows to launch kernels on behalf of remote notebooks. The Enterprise Gateway exposes a kernel as a Service model providing better optimization of compute resources, improved multi-user support, enable compute offload capability and more granular security for Jupyter notebook environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this release, the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench provides an option to connect to a Jupyter Enterprise Gateway which enables launch and management of kernels on behalf of remote notebooks. The JEG exposes kernel-as-a-service model providing better optimization of compute resources, improved multi-user support, enable compute offload capability and more granular security for Jupyter notebook environment.

```

Author: Fixed.

> With this release, the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench provides an integration connection to Jupyter Enterprise Gateway using which it is possible to launch kernels on behalf of remote notebooks. The enterprise gateway exposes a Kernel as a Service model providing better optimization of compute resources, improved multi-user support, enable compute offload capability and more granular security for Jupyter notebook environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this release, the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench provides an integration connection to Jupyter Enterprise Gateway which allows to launch kernels on behalf of remote notebooks. The Enterprise Gateway exposes a kernel as a service model providing better optimization of compute resources, improved multi-user support, enable compute offload capability and more granular security for the Jupyter notebook environment.

```

  - Settings: 

>     - A new tab is added to register the Jupyter Enterprise Gateway URL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - A new tab is added to register the JEG URL

```

Author: Fixed.

>     - A new tab is added to register the Jupyter Enterprise Gateway url

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A new tab is added to register the Jupyter Enterprise Gateway URL

```

Author: Fixed.

>     - Pop-up to notify an end user that all running kernels would be deleted during the setting and delete actions of the JEG credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Popup to notify an end user that all running kernels will be deleted during the setting and delete actions of the JEG credentials

```

Author: Fixed.

  - Notebook UI: 

>       - Pop-up display to select different kernel specs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Popup display to select different kernel specs

```

Author: Fixed.

>       - “Jupyter” logo beside the kernel name on every notebook to notify the user that the notebook is running using a kernel spec from the remote Jupyter Enterprise Gateway server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - “Jupyter” logo beside the kernel name on every notebook to notify the user that the notebook is running using a kernel spec from the remote JEG server

```

Author: Fixed.

>       - “Jupyter” logo beside the Kernel name on every notebook to notify an end user that the notebook is running using a Kernel spec from the remote Jupyter Enterprise Gateway server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - “Jupyter” logo beside the kernel name on every notebook to notify the user that the notebook is running using a kernel spec from the remote Jupyter Enterprise Gateway server

```

Author: Fixed.

>       - Option within the integrated Jupyter UI to insert the code snippets using which a Data Scientist would be able to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Option within the integrated Jupyter UI to insert the code snippets which allow a data scientist to:

```

          - Download “Data” from MLW to the JEG server

>           - Upload “Models” to MLW from JEG server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          - Upload “Models” to MLW from the JEG server

```

Author: Fixed.

          - List the projects available
          - List the resources available within a project

> * MLW sdk:\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* MLW SDK:\

```

Author: Fixed.

> With the inclusion of the Jupyter Enterprise Gateway connection within the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench, there was a need to develop a Python package which allowed to exchange the artifacts (Data, Models) to and from the JEG server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To complement the inclusion of the Jupyter Enterprise Gateway connection within the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench, we also provide a Python package which facilitates exchange of artifacts (Data, Models, Resources) to and from the JEG server.

```

Author: Fixed.

> With the inclusion of Jupyter Enterprise Gateway connection within the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench, there was a need to develop a Python package using which the artifacts (Data, Models) exchange was possible to and from the JEG server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the inclusion of the Jupyter Enterprise Gateway connection within the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench, there was a need to develop a Python package which allowed to exchange the artifacts (Data, Models) to and from the JEG server.

```

Author: Fixed.

- Enhancements:

>   - Project Management UX improvements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Project management UX improvements:

```

Author: Fixed.

    - Ability to select multiple resources for deletion

>     - Ability to delete individual project version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Ability to delete an individual project version

```

Author: Fixed.

    - Ability to select multiple projects for deletion

>     - Tasks, assets grouping according to the projects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Task and Asset grouping based on projects

```

Author: Fixed.

>     - Tasks, Assets grouping according to the projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Tasks, assets grouping according to the projects

```

Author: Fixed.

>     - Ability to select multiple tasks, assets for deletion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Ability to select multiple tasks and assets for deletion

```

Author: Fixed.

>     - Project commit button is restructured to make the functionality more intuitive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Project commit button relocated to make the functionality more intuitive

```

Author: Fixed.

* Upgrades:
  * Machine Learning Workbench web application upgraded to use Cumulocity Web SDK 1015.0.2.

>   * MLW microservice upgraded from onnx version 1.7.0 to version 1.11.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * MLW microservice upgraded from Onnx version 1.7.0 to version 1.11.0.

```

Author: Fixed.

  * MLW microservice upgraded from protobuf version 3.12.4 to version 3.20.0.
  * MLW microservice upgraded from supervisor version 4.2.1 to version 4.2.4.

- Bug fixes:

>   - Fixed the issue with the vulnerable 3rd Party component protobuf used in the Docker image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue with the vulnerable 3rd Party component protobuf.

```
Can we also link the CVE ticket?

>   - Fixed the issue with vulnerable 3rd Party Component protobuf used in docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue with vulnerable 3rd-party component protobuf used in docker image.

```

Author: Fixed.

>   - Fixed the issue with the vulnerable 3rd Party component openssl used in the Docker image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue with the vulnerable 3rd Party component openssl.

```
Can we also link the CVE ticket?

Author: Fixed.

>   - Fixed the issue with vulnerable 3rd Party Component openssl used in docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue with the vulnerable 3rd-party component openssl used in the Docker image.

```

Author: Fixed.

  - Fixed the issue with the wrong resource count for a particular project.

>   - Fixed the issue with MLW RBAC not working if user agent validation required is checked in Cumulocity Authentication (OAuth) Settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue with MLW RBAC not working if "user agent validation required" is checked in the Cumulocity IoT authentication settings (OAuth).

```

Author: Fixed.

---
title: Release 10.15.0
layout: redirect
weight: 40
---

### Improvements in Machine Learning Engine

- Enhancements:
  - In the Machine Learning web application, confirmation popups have been modified to provide a consistent UX with the rest of the platform.

* Upgrades:

>   * Machine Learning web application upgraded to use Cumulocity Web SDK 1015.0.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Machine Learning web application upgraded to use Cumulocity IoT Web SDK 1015.0.2.

```

  * Zementis microservice upgraded from openssl version 1.0.2 to version 1.1.1n.
  * Nyoka and Onnx microservices upgraded from NumPy version 1.18.5 to version 1.21.5.
  * Nyoka and Onnx microservices upgraded from scikit-learn version 0.21.3 to version 0.23.1.

>   * Onnx microservice upgraded from onnx version 1.7.0 to version 1.11.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Onnx microservice upgraded from Onnx version 1.7.0 to version 1.11.0.

```

>   * Onnx microservice upgraded from onnx-runtime version 1.5.2 to version 1.11.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Onnx microservice upgraded from ONNX-runtime version 1.5.2 to version 1.11.0.

```

  * Onnx microservice upgraded from protobuf version 3.17.0 to version 3.20.0.

- Bug fixes:
  - Fixed the issue where requests to the Onnx microservice were failing if user agent validation was enabled in the OAI settings.
  - Fixed the issue where the model group list was displaying the deleted model groups occasionally.
  - Fixed the issue where listed pmml models reported "404-Not Found" while attempting to delete them.

### Improvements in Machine Learning Workbench

* Compute off-load with a pluggable Jupyter Enterprise Gateway (JEG):\

> With this release, the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench provides an option to connect to a Jupyter Enterprise Gateway which enables launch and management of kernels on behalf of remote notebooks. The JEG exposes kernel-as-a-service model providing better optimization of compute resources, improved multi-user support, enable compute offload capability and more granular security for Jupyter notebook environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this release, the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench provides an option to connect to a Jupyter Enterprise Gateway which enables launch and management of kernels on behalf of remote notebooks. The JEG exposes a kernel-as-a-service model providing better optimization of compute resources, improved multi-user support, enable compute offload capability and more granular security for Jupyter notebook environment.

```

    - Popup to notify the user that all running kernels will be deleted during the setting and delete actions of the JEG credentials
  - Notebook UI: 
      - Popup display to select different kernel specs
      - “Jupyter” logo beside the kernel name on every notebook to notify the user that the notebook is running using a kernel spec from the remote JEG server
      - Option within the integrated Jupyter UI to insert the code snippets which allow a data scientist to:
          - Download “Data” from MLW to the JEG server
          - Upload “Models” to MLW from the JEG server
          - List the projects available
          - List the resources available within a project

* MLW SDK:\
To complement the inclusion of the Jupyter Enterprise Gateway connection within the Cumulocity IoT Machine Learning Workbench, we also provide a Python package which facilitates exchange of artifacts (Data, Models, Resources) to and from the JEG server.

- Enhancements:
  - Project management UX improvements:
    - Ability to select multiple resources for deletion
    - Ability to delete an individual project version
    - Ability to select multiple projects for deletion

>     - Task and Asset grouping based on projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Task and asset grouping based on projects

```

    - Ability to select multiple tasks and assets for deletion
    - Project commit button relocated to make the functionality more intuitive

* Upgrades:

>   * Machine Learning Workbench web application upgraded to use Cumulocity Web SDK 1015.0.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Machine Learning Workbench web application upgraded to use Cumulocity IoT Web SDK 1015.0.2.

```

>   * MLW microservice upgraded from Onnx version 1.7.0 to version 1.11.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * MLW microservice upgraded from ONNX version 1.7.0 to version 1.11.0.

```
